[Scheduled] OIDC with Azure blog post (#2822)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/oidc-with-azure/index.md

---
title: "Announcing OIDC Support for Pulumi Azure Providers"

# The date represents the post's publish date,
# and by default corresponds with the date this file was generated.
# Posts with future dates are visible in development,
# but excluded from production builds.
# Use the time and timezone-offset portions of of this value
# to schedule posts for publishing later.

> date: 2023-05-17T12:36:04-07:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: 2023-06-01
```

# Use the meta_desc property to provide a brief summary
# (one or two sentences) of the content of the post,
# which is useful for targeting search results or social-media previews.
# This field is required or the build will fail the linter test.
# Max length is 160 characters.
meta_desc: A guide to using OIDC authentication with Azure in Pulumi

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page.
# A placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect ratio
# has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required.
# The values in this list correspond with the `id` properties
# of the team member files at /data/team/team.
# Create a file for yourself if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - thomas-kappler

# At least one tag is required.
# Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - azure

---

> We are happy to announce the delivery of Azure OIDC authentication, one of the [most requested features](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-azure-native/issues/1324) for the [Pulumi Azure Native Provider](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/azure-native/). With the v1.100.0 release, OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication is now fully supported in both the native and [classic](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/azure/) providers. Let’s dig in to learn what it is, how it works, and why it’s useful.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are happy to announce the delivery of Azure OIDC authentication, one of the [most requested features](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-azure-native/issues/1324) for the [Pulumi Azure Native Provider](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/azure-native/). With the v1.100.0 release, OpenID Connect (OIDC) authentication is now fully supported in both the Azure Native and [Azure Classic](https://www.pulumi.com/registry/packages/azure/) providers. Let’s dig in to learn what it is, how it works, and why it’s useful.
```

<!--more-->

{{% notes type="info" %}}

> [Pulumi announced OIDC support for Deployments](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/oidc-blog/) in January. This article is about the same OIDC protocol, this time used to authenticate your Pulumi program to access Azure resources.

Reviewer 2: If I'm understanding correctly, the key difference here from the earlier blog post is this covers use cases outside Deployments (like your example of using GitHub Workflows). Is that correct? If so, perhaps rewording this section slightly to make that distinction would be helpful for readers.

Author: I gave it a shot, let me know what you think

Secrets need to be safeguarded, rotated, and possibly revoked. If you’ve ever managed a system, whether production or CI/CD, the possibility of managing fewer secrets will be enticing. So how do we go about implementing this?

## Enabling OIDC

There are two parts to enabling your Pulumi program to authenticate via OIDC. One is establishing the trust relationship between Azure and the other service that’s involved, like GitHub. This is a one-time operation. The second one is providing your program with the necessary configuration to perform the OIDC token exchange at runtime.

Fortunately, Microsoft has the first step covered with their [establishing the trust relationship guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/workload-identities/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp). The idea is that an Active Directory app registration holds the necessary federated credentials. Your program will then use this app’s tenant id to request the token exchange. The setup depends on whether you run on GitHub Actions, Kubernetes, or other providers.

> On to the second step, configuring your Pulumi program. First, set the configuration `ARM_USE_OIDC` to true. Next, you’re in luck if your program runs on GitHub Actions: you're done. GitHub exports the necessary values in form of variables that Pulumi understands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once that's done, you can proceed to the second step of configuring your Pulumi program. First, set the configuration `ARM_USE_OIDC` to true. Next, you’re in luck if your program runs on GitHub Actions: you're done. GitHub exports the necessary values in form of variables that Pulumi understands.
```

> On to the second step, configuring your Pulumi program. First, set the configuration `ARM_USE_OIDC` to true. Next, you’re in luck if your program runs on GitHub Actions: you're done. GitHub exports the necessary values in form of variables that Pulumi understands.

Reviewer 2: Is `ARM_USE_OIDC` an environment variable or a configuration value set using `pulumi config set`? (Same question for `ARM_OIDC_REQUEST_TOKEN` and `ARM_OIDC_REQUEST_URL`.) It might be helpful to add some wording for more clarity here.

---

> title: "OIDC with Azure"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: "Announcing OIDC Support for Pulumi Azure Providers"
```

# Max length is 160 characters.
meta_desc: A guide to using OIDC authentication with Azure in Pulumi

# The meta_image appears in social-media previews and on the blog home page.
# A placeholder image representing the recommended format, dimensions and aspect ratio
# has been provided for you.
meta_image: meta.png

# At least one author is required.
# The values in this list correspond with the `id` properties
# of the team member files at /data/team/team.
# Create a file for yourself if you don't already have one.
authors:
    - thomas-kappler

# At least one tag is required.
# Lowercase, hyphen-delimited is recommended.
tags:
    - azure

---

Recently, we’ve released a long requested feature: OIDC authentication for Azure. It's available in both the native and the classic provider. Let’s dig in to what it is, how it works, and why it’s useful.

<!--more-->

{{% notes type="info" %}}
[Pulumi announced OIDC support for Deployments](https://www.pulumi.com/blog/oidc-blog/) in January. This article is about the same OIDC protocol, this time used to authenticate your Pulumi program to access Azure resources.
{{% /notes %}}

### The What and Why of OIDC

> OIDC stands for OpenID Connect, which is a standardized protocol for federated identity. This means that if you maintain an identity with two service providers, you can tell one of them to trust the other. Then, you can use credentials for the trusted service to get credentials for the other.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
OIDC stands for OpenID Connect, a standardized protocol for federated identity. This means that if you maintain an identity with two service providers, you can tell one of them to trust the other. Then, you can use credentials for the trusted service to get credentials for the other.
```

> As an example, we’ll use a Pulumi program running in CI on GitHub Workflows, creating Azure resources in the process. Without OIDC, this program would need a secret to authenticate with Azure - a client secret or a certificate. With OIDC, your program doesn't need a secret. It can send its GitHub token to Azure instead.  Based on the trust relationship between the two, Azure will exchange the GitHub token for an Azure token.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For example, we’ll use a Pulumi program running in CI on GitHub Workflows, creating Azure resources. Without OIDC, this program would need a secret to authenticate with Azure - a client secret or a certificate. With OIDC, your program doesn't need a secret. It can send its GitHub token to Azure instead. Based on the trust relationship between the two, Azure will exchange the GitHub token for an Azure token.
```

Secrets need to be safeguarded, rotated, and possibly revoked. If you’ve ever managed a system, whether production or CI/CD, the possibility of managing fewer secrets will be enticing. So how do we go about implementing this?

### Enabling OIDC

There are two parts to enabling your Pulumi program to authenticate via OIDC. One is establishing the trust relationship between Azure and the other service that’s involved, like GitHub. This is a one-time operation. The second one is providing your program with the necessary configuration to perform the OIDC token exchange at runtime.

> Fortunately, Microsoft have the first step, establishing the trust relationship, [thoroughly covered here](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/workload-identities/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp). We won’t repeat all the details of this guide here. The idea is that an Active Directory app registration holds the necessary federated credentials. Your program will then use this app’s tenant id to request the token exchange. The exact setup depends on whether you run on GitHub Actions, Kubernetes, or other providers. The linked guide covers these scenarios.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Fortunately, Microsoft has the first step covered with their [establishing the trust relationship guide](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/workload-identities/workload-identity-federation-create-trust?pivots=identity-wif-apps-methods-azp). The idea is that an Active Directory app registration holds the necessary federated credentials. Your program will then use this app’s tenant id to request the token exchange. The setup depends on whether you run on GitHub Actions, Kubernetes, or other providers.
```

### A complete example

Let’s take a look at how the CI end-to-end tests of the Pulumi Azure Native provider are set up. First, we have an Active Directory App creatively named oidc-test. We simply copy its client and tenant ids and set them in the CI workflow, along with our subscription:

```
env:
  ARM_CLIENT_ID: 30e520fa-[redacted]
  ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID: 0282681f-[redacted]
  ARM_TENANT_ID: 706143bc-[redacted]
  ARM_USE_OIDC=true
```

Note how there is no secret or certificate present.

We also give the required permissions to the workflow step where the authentication happens:

```
permissions:
  id-token: write  # required for OIDC auth
```

In Azure, we added the required credentials to the Active Directory App. You'll find this under “Certificates & secrets” -> “Federated credentials” on the app’s page. Let’s look at two of the credentials. Both enable OIDC for all pull requests on the repository, one for each Azure provider.

![OIDC credentials](oidc-credentials.png)

> That’s it! I hope this helps you simplify your Azure authentication.

Reviewer 3: Is there a stronger call to action we can include here?

Reviewer 5: Agreed. I reviewed the blog post and it looks great - but it ends a bit unexpectedly. Consider adding a brief section to the end with a wrap-up and a CTA.

Author: I tried to flesh out the final part a bit - let me know what you think.
